---
layout: theme-site/blog/post
author-id: 1
title: Configure Apache to Forward some Url Reqests to Wildfly
include-seo: true
image-path: assets/this-site/images/blog/posts/apache-forward-requests-conditionally-to-wildfly/banner.jpg
categories: [information-technology]
tags: [information technology, apache, httpd, mod_proxy, wildfly]
date: 2018-01-03
---

I created a website <a href="{{ 'about/information-technology/projects/cheapthycable' | relative_url }}">Cheapthycable.com</a> that is composed of a static blog and a JavaEE application. Originally I developed it so that all content was served out by the application server whose content was comprised from a war file.
<!--more-->

{% assign _image_folder = 'assets/this-site/images/blog/posts/apache-forward-requests-conditionally-to-wildfly/' %}

When I originally built the project, I wanted everything to be contained in my war file, both dynamic content and static content. A couple of things I have since discovered I don't like about this are 1) any blogs I add requires a war file deployment which is much slower than just doing a apache restart, 2) I didn't like the effect this had on my version control. For me, it was difficult to determine when a good time to perform a tag on the source code should occur, since things were constantly changing with the blog.

So I decided that I wanted to separate the content of my website and particularly what served out that content. The site's blog is generated by the static site generator Pelican and all this content I wanted to be served out by the Apache web server. All other content, namely the application, would be handle by my Wildfly application server. Below is a brief snippet from my httpd.conf file, showing how I forwarded certain application related url patterns to the application server.

A couple of quick notes. Under my htdocs folder, I created a subfolder ```cheapthycable.com``` containing the static content served out by Apache. My application server is listening on port 8080, so by specifying the port I can forward request on to the application server. Also notice the use of ProxyPassReverse. You may ask, "do I need the ProxyPassReverse". The documentation recommends it.

{% capture _quote %}
	The reverse proxy then decides where to send those requests and returns the content as if it were itself the origin.
{% endcapture %}
{% include theme-core/components/quote.html quote=_quote %}

and

{% capture _quote %}
	Note that whether you use RewriteRule or ProxyPass, you'll still need to use the ProxyPassReverse directive to catch redirects issued from the back-end server:
{% endcapture %}
{% include theme-core/components/quote.html quote=_quote %}

I won't include all the app related urls that need to be forwarded, but a couple are ```/login``` and ```/app```.

{% gist ea226d39d967d5d33d49fdd1ea9ba71b %}

This is a just a snippet of my base configuration, but should give you a basic idea.
